README.md, before:

![PlotJuggler](docs/plotjuggler3_banner.svg)


[![CI](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/workflows/ros1/badge.svg)](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/actions?query=workflow%3Aros1)
[![CI](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/workflows/ros2/badge.svg)](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/actions?query=workflow%3Aros2)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/PlotJuggler/Lobby](https://badges.gitter.im/PlotJuggler/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/PlotJuggler/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge) 
[![Tweet](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/http/shields.io.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=I%20use%20PlotJuggler%20and%20it%20is%20amazing%0D%0A&url=https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler&via=facontidavide&hashtags=dataviz,plotjuggler,GoROS,PX4)
**Gold Sponsor**: [Greenzie](https://www.greenzie.com/)

# PlotJuggler 3.1

PlotJuggler is a tool to visualize time series that is **fast**, **powerful** and  **intuitive**.

Noteworthy features:

- Simple Drag & Drop user interface.
- Load __data from file__. 
- Connect to live __streaming__ of data.
- Save the visualization layout and configurations to re-use them later.
- Fast **OpenGL** visualization.
- Can handle **thousands** of timeseries and **millions** of data points.
- Transform your data using a simple editor: derivative, moving average, integral, etc…
- PlotJuggler can be easily extended using __plugins__.

![PlotJuggler](docs/plotjuggler3.gif)


## Data sources (file and streaming)

- Load CSV files.
- Load [ULog](https://dev.px4.io/v1.9.0/en/log/ulog_file_format.html) (PX4).
- Subscribe to many different streaming sources: MQTT, Websockets, ZeroMQ, UDP, etc.
- Understands data formats such as JSON, CBOR, BSON, Message Pack, etc.
- Well integrated with [ROS](https://www.ros.org/): open *rosbags* and/or subscribe to ROS *topics* (both ROS1 and ROS2).
- Supports the [Lab Streaming Layer](https://labstreaminglayer.readthedocs.io/info/intro.html), that is used by [many devices](https://labstreaminglayer.readthedocs.io/info/supported_devices.html).
- Easily add your custom data source and/or formats...

![](docs/data_sources.svg)

## Transform and analyze your data
PlotJuggler makes it easy to visualize data but also to analyze it.
You can manipulate your time series using a simple and extendable Transform Editor.

![](docs/function_editor.png)

Alternatively, you may use the Custom Function Editor, that allows you to create Multi-input / Single-output functions
using a scripting language based on [Lua](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/lua/index.htm). 

If you are not familiar with Lua, don't be afraid, you won't need more than 5 minutes to learn it ;)

![](docs/custom_editor.png)


## Just "Download and Run" 

On Linux, the simplest way to install PlotJuggler is through **snaps**:

[![Get it from the Snap Store](https://snapcraft.io/static/images/badges/en/snap-store-white.svg)](https://snapcraft.io/plotjuggler)
    
**Windows Installer**: 
[PlotJuggler-3.1-WinInstaller.exe](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/releases/download/3.1.0/PlotJuggler-3.1-WinInstaller.exe)

## How to build

Clone the repository as usual:

    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler.git

The only binary dependency that you need installed in your system is Qt5. 
On Ubuntu, the debians can be installed with the the command:

    sudo apt -y install qtbase5-dev libqt5svg5-dev libqt5websockets5-dev libqt5opengl5-dev libqt5x11extras5-dev
    
On Fedora:

    sudo dnf install qt5-qtbase-devel qt5-qtsvg-devel qt5-websockets-devel qt5-qtopendl-devel qt5-qtx11extras-devel
    
Then compile using cmake (qmake is NOT supported):

     mkdir build; cd build
     cmake ..
     make
     sudo make install
 
Note: the plugins need to be installed in the same folder of the executable.

## Note for ROS users

To install PlotJuggler, just type:

    sudo apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-plotjuggler-ros
       
I added a fix that will be available in the next release.

To launch PlotJuggler on ROS, use the command:

      rosrun plotjuggler plotjuggler

or, if are using ROS2:

       ros2 run plotjuggler plotjuggler

Since version 3.x, ROS plugins have been moved to a separate repository:

https://github.com/PlotJuggler/plotjuggler-ros-plugins

Refer to the instructions in the this repository if you want to compile PJ and its ROS plugins from source.

# If you like PlotJuggler, support it.

PlotJuggler required a lot of work to be developed; my goal is to build the most 
intuitive and powerfull tool to visualize data and timeseries.

If you find PlotJuggler useful, consider making a donation on [PayPal](https://www.paypal.me/facontidavide) or become a 
[Github Sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/facontidavide).

If you use PlotJuggler at work, your company can support the development of those specific features they need.

[Contact me](https://www.plotjuggler.io/support) for more details.

# Stargazers

[![Stargazers over time](https://starchart.cc/facontidavide/PlotJuggler.svg)](https://starchart.cc/facontidavide/PlotJuggler)

Commit message:

Imported upstream version '3.1.2' of 'upstream'

README.md, after:

![PlotJuggler](docs/plotjuggler3_banner.svg)


[![CI](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/workflows/ros1/badge.svg)](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/actions?query=workflow%3Aros1)
[![CI](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/workflows/ros2/badge.svg)](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/actions?query=workflow%3Aros2)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/PlotJuggler/Lobby](https://badges.gitter.im/PlotJuggler/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/PlotJuggler/Lobby?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge) 
[![Tweet](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/http/shields.io.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=I%20use%20PlotJuggler%20and%20it%20is%20amazing%0D%0A&url=https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler&via=facontidavide&hashtags=dataviz,plotjuggler,GoROS,PX4)
**Gold Sponsor**: [Greenzie](https://www.greenzie.com/)

# PlotJuggler 3.1

PlotJuggler is a tool to visualize time series that is **fast**, **powerful** and  **intuitive**.

Noteworthy features:

- Simple Drag & Drop user interface.
- Load __data from file__. 
- Connect to live __streaming__ of data.
- Save the visualization layout and configurations to re-use them later.
- Fast **OpenGL** visualization.
- Can handle **thousands** of timeseries and **millions** of data points.
- Transform your data using a simple editor: derivative, moving average, integral, etc…
- PlotJuggler can be easily extended using __plugins__.

![PlotJuggler](docs/plotjuggler3.gif)


## Data sources (file and streaming)

- Load CSV files.
- Load [ULog](https://dev.px4.io/v1.9.0/en/log/ulog_file_format.html) (PX4).
- Subscribe to many different streaming sources: MQTT, Websockets, ZeroMQ, UDP, etc.
- Understands data formats such as JSON, CBOR, BSON, Message Pack, etc.
- Well integrated with [ROS](https://www.ros.org/): open *rosbags* and/or subscribe to ROS *topics* (both ROS1 and ROS2).
- Supports the [Lab Streaming Layer](https://labstreaminglayer.readthedocs.io/info/intro.html), that is used by [many devices](https://labstreaminglayer.readthedocs.io/info/supported_devices.html).
- Easily add your custom data source and/or formats...

![](docs/data_sources.svg)

## Transform and analyze your data
PlotJuggler makes it easy to visualize data but also to analyze it.
You can manipulate your time series using a simple and extendable Transform Editor.

![](docs/function_editor.png)

Alternatively, you may use the Custom Function Editor, that allows you to create Multi-input / Single-output functions
using a scripting language based on [Lua](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/lua/index.htm). 

If you are not familiar with Lua, don't be afraid, you won't need more than 5 minutes to learn it ;)

![](docs/custom_editor.png)

## Tutorials

To learns how to use PlotJuggler, check the tutorials here:

https://slides.com/davidefaconti/decks/plotjuggler

## Installation

### Binary installers (with basic plugins)

**Linux AppImage** (compatible with Ubuntu 18.04 or later: 
[PlotJuggler-3.1.2-x86_64.AppImage](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/releases/download/3.1.2/PlotJuggler-3.1.2-x86_64.AppImage)

**Windows Installer**: 
[PlotJuggler-Windows-3.1.2-installer](https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler/releases/download/3.1.2/PlotJuggler-Windows-3.1.2-installer.exe)

### For ROS User

Install the debian packages using: 

     sudo apt install ros-<distro>-plotjuggler-ros

Alternatively, you may download the Snaps version that include the ROS1 plugins:

[![Get it from the Snap Store](https://snapcraft.io/static/images/badges/en/snap-store-white.svg)](https://snapcraft.io/plotjuggler)

## How to build

Clone the repository as usual:

    git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/facontidavide/PlotJuggler.git

The only binary dependency that you need installed in your system is Qt5. 
On Ubuntu, the debians can be installed with the the command:

    sudo apt -y install qtbase5-dev libqt5svg5-dev libqt5websockets5-dev libqt5opengl5-dev libqt5x11extras5-dev
    
On Fedora:

    sudo dnf install qt5-qtbase-devel qt5-qtsvg-devel qt5-websockets-devel qt5-qtopendl-devel qt5-qtx11extras-devel
    
Then compile using cmake (qmake is NOT supported):

     mkdir build; cd build
     cmake ..
     make
     sudo make install
 
Note: the plugins need to be installed in the same folder of the executable.

## Note for ROS users

To install PlotJuggler, just type:

    sudo apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-plotjuggler-ros
       
I added a fix that will be available in the next release.

To launch PlotJuggler on ROS, use the command:

      rosrun plotjuggler plotjuggler

or, if are using ROS2:

       ros2 run plotjuggler plotjuggler

Since version 3.x, ROS plugins have been moved to a separate repository:

https://github.com/PlotJuggler/plotjuggler-ros-plugins

Refer to the instructions in the this repository if you want to compile PJ and its ROS plugins from source.

# If you like PlotJuggler, support it.

PlotJuggler required a lot of work to be developed; my goal is to build the most 
intuitive and powerfull tool to visualize data and timeseries.

If you find PlotJuggler useful, consider making a donation on [PayPal](https://www.paypal.me/facontidavide) or become a 
[Github Sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/facontidavide).

If you use PlotJuggler at work, your company can support the development of those specific features they need.

[Contact me](https://www.plotjuggler.io/support) for more details.

# Stargazers

[![Stargazers over time](https://starchart.cc/facontidavide/PlotJuggler.svg)](https://starchart.cc/facontidavide/PlotJuggler)
